production_references.md, before:

<!-- TOC -->

- [Python tools and surroundings](#python-tools-and-surroundings)
- [Virtual environment](#virtual-environment)
- [Testing Python Code](#testing-python-code)
  - [InfoShare course - testing](#infoshare-course---testing)
  - [pytest](#pytest)
  - [doctest](#doctest)
  - [Book references](#book-references)
- [Documentation Python Code](#documentation-python-code)
- [Debugging](#debugging)
- [Packaging](#packaging)
  - [How to Dynamically Generate Requirements.txt file for Python Apps](#how-to-dynamically-generate-requirementstxt-file-for-python-apps)
- [Observing Application Behavior and Performance](#observing-application-behavior-and-performance)
- [Logging in Python](#logging-in-python)
- [Makefile - Python](#makefile---python)

<!-- /TOC -->

# Python tools and surroundings

This part of the file is maily for gather useful links and materials for Python project: started from web to data sciecne. Mostly about Python additional surroundings not language itself.

For example: testing, creating docs, building dependencies and so on.

This part is very live and dynamic, because something still going on Python market.

Nevertheless this part is important because could be used as reference repo and in the future as first line of defence in case of looking for python-prod materials and tips.

# Virtual environment

- Mastering Python - Second Edition - One Environment per Project

  - https://learning.oreilly.com/library/view/mastering-python/9781800207721/Text/Chapter_1.xhtml#:-:text=One%20Environment%20per%20Project

- Python Virtual Environments: A Primer

  - https://realpython.com/python-virtual-environments-a-primer/

- Expert Python Programming - Fourth Edition - Modern Python Development Environments

  - https://learning.oreilly.com/library/view/expert-python-programming/9781801071109/Text/Chapter_2.xhtml#:-:text=Modern%20Python%20Development%20Environments

- Pipenv & Virtual Environments
  - https://docs.python-guide.org/dev/virtualenvs/

# Testing Python Code

## InfoShare course - testing

- https://www.infoshareacademy.online/products/python-wtajemniczenie/categories/2149025568

- https://www.infoshareacademy.online/products/python-wtajemniczenie/categories/2149091718

## pytest

- Effective Python Testing With Pytest

  - https://realpython.com/pytest-python-testing/

- pytest: helps you write better programs
  - https://docs.pytest.org/en/7.1.x/

## doctest

- Test interactive Python examples

  - https://docs.python.org/3/library/doctest.html?highlight=doctest#module-doctest

- Python's doctest
  - https://realpython.com/python-doctest/

## Book references

- Mastering Python - Second Edition - Testing and Logging – Preparing for Bugs

  - https://learning.oreilly.com/library/view/mastering-python/9781800207721/Text/Chapter_10.xhtml#:-:text=Preparing%20for%20Bugs

- Expert Python Programming - Fourth Edition - Testing and Quality Automation

  - https://learning.oreilly.com/library/view/expert-python-programming/9781801071109/Text/Chapter_10.xhtml#:-:text=Testing

- Python in a Nutshell, 4th Edition - Chapter 17. Testing, Debugging, and Optimizing

  - https://learning.oreilly.com/library/view/python-in-a/9781098113544/ch17.html#:-:text=Chapter%2017.%20Testing%2C%20Debugging%2C%20and%20Optimizing

- Python Testing with pytest
  - https://learning.oreilly.com/library/view/python-testing-with/9781680509427/

# Documentation Python Code

- Documenting Python Code: A Complete Guide

  - https://realpython.com/documenting-python-code/

- Mastering Python - Second Edition - Documentation – How to Use Sphinx and reStructuredText

  - https://learning.oreilly.com/library/view/mastering-python/9781800207721/Text/Chapter_9.xhtml#:-:text=How%20to%20Use%20Sphinx%20and%20reStructuredText

- Authoring and maintaining documentation
  - https://learning.oreilly.com/library/view/publishing-python-packages/9781617299919/OEBPS/Text/08.htm#heading_id_3

# Debugging

- Mastering Python - Second Edition - Debugging – Solving the Bugs

  - https://learning.oreilly.com/library/view/mastering-python/9781800207721/Text/Chapter_11.xhtml#:-:text=Solving%20the%20Bugs

- Effective Python: 90 Specific Ways to Write Better Python - Testing and Debugging

  - https://learning.oreilly.com/library/view/effective-python-90/9780134854717/ch09.xhtml

- Debugging Python with VS Code
  - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R3smFr6W8jI&ab_channel=MattSpataro

# Packaging

- Mastering Python - Second Edition - Packaging – Creating Your Own Libraries or Applications

  - https://learning.oreilly.com/library/view/mastering-python/9781800207721/Text/Chapter_18.xhtml#:-:text=Creating%20Your%20Own%20Libraries%20or%20Applications

- Packaging and Distributing Python Code

  - https://learning.oreilly.com/library/view/expert-python-programming/9781801071109/Text/Chapter_11.xhtml

- Python Packaging User Guide - Official Pytgon guide

  - https://packaging.python.org/en/latest/

- Packaging Your Code

  - https://docs.python-guide.org/shipping/packaging/

- Infoshare - Python: Packages and modules

  - https://www.infoshareacademy.online/products/python-poczatek/categories/4273154/posts/14345879

- Publishing Python Packages
  - https://learning.oreilly.com/library/view/publishing-python-packages/9781617299919/

## How to Dynamically Generate Requirements.txt file for Python Apps

- https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0ZeoruSobc4&list=PLnFWJCugpwfztr1ND_n0b_j-QXV20DHNj&index=4

# Observing Application Behavior and Performance

- Expert Python Programming - Observing Application Behavior and Performance
  - https://learning.oreilly.com/library/view/expert-python-programming/9781801071109/Text/Chapter_12.xhtml#_idParaDest-244

# Logging in Python

- ArjanCode: Python Logging: How to Write Logs
  - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pxuXaaT1u3k&ab_channel=ArjanCodes

# Makefile - Python

- Creating a Python Makefile

  - https://earthly.dev/blog/python-makefile/#top

- YouTube explanation
  - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Yt-UF7fNLJE&ab_channel=NeuralNine

Commit message:

New file for optimization added

production_references.md, after:

<!-- TOC -->

- [Python tools and surroundings](#python-tools-and-surroundings)
- [Virtual environment](#virtual-environment)
- [Testing Python Code](#testing-python-code)
  - [InfoShare course - testing](#infoshare-course---testing)
  - [pytest](#pytest)
  - [doctest](#doctest)
  - [Book references](#book-references)
- [Documentation Python Code](#documentation-python-code)
- [Debugging](#debugging)
- [Packaging](#packaging)
  - [How to Dynamically Generate Requirements.txt file for Python Apps](#how-to-dynamically-generate-requirementstxt-file-for-python-apps)
- [Observing Application Behavior and Performance](#observing-application-behavior-and-performance)
- [Logging in Python](#logging-in-python)
- [Makefile - Python](#makefile---python)

<!-- /TOC -->

# Python tools and surroundings

This section is a compilation of valuable resources and materials related to Python projects, ranging from web development to data science. The focus is on the Python ecosystem rather than the language itself, covering aspects such as testing, documentation, dependency management, and more.

This collection is continuously updated as the Python landscape evolves, making it a valuable reference and go-to source for Python-related tools, tips, and best practices.

# Virtual environment

- Mastering Python - Second Edition - One Environment per Project

  - https://learning.oreilly.com/library/view/mastering-python/9781800207721/Text/Chapter_1.xhtml#:-:text=One%20Environment%20per%20Project

- Python Virtual Environments: A Primer

  - https://realpython.com/python-virtual-environments-a-primer/

- Expert Python Programming - Fourth Edition - Modern Python Development Environments

  - https://learning.oreilly.com/library/view/expert-python-programming/9781801071109/Text/Chapter_2.xhtml#:-:text=Modern%20Python%20Development%20Environments

- Pipenv & Virtual Environments

  - https://docs.python-guide.org/dev/virtualenvs/

- Fred Baptiste course
  - https://www.udemy.com/course/python3-fundamentals/learn/lecture/35144942#overview
  - https://www.udemy.com/course/python3-fundamentals/learn/lecture/35144950#overview

# Testing Python Code

## InfoShare course - testing

- https://www.infoshareacademy.online/products/python-wtajemniczenie/categories/2149025568

- https://www.infoshareacademy.online/products/python-wtajemniczenie/categories/2149091718

## pytest

- Effective Python Testing With Pytest

  - https://realpython.com/pytest-python-testing/

- pytest: helps you write better programs
  - https://docs.pytest.org/en/7.1.x/

## doctest

- Test interactive Python examples

  - https://docs.python.org/3/library/doctest.html?highlight=doctest#module-doctest

- Python's doctest
  - https://realpython.com/python-doctest/

## Book references

- Mastering Python - Second Edition - Testing and Logging – Preparing for Bugs

  - https://learning.oreilly.com/library/view/mastering-python/9781800207721/Text/Chapter_10.xhtml#:-:text=Preparing%20for%20Bugs

- Expert Python Programming - Fourth Edition - Testing and Quality Automation

  - https://learning.oreilly.com/library/view/expert-python-programming/9781801071109/Text/Chapter_10.xhtml#:-:text=Testing

- Python in a Nutshell, 4th Edition - Chapter 17. Testing, Debugging, and Optimizing

  - https://learning.oreilly.com/library/view/python-in-a/9781098113544/ch17.html#:-:text=Chapter%2017.%20Testing%2C%20Debugging%2C%20and%20Optimizing

- Python Testing with pytest
  - https://learning.oreilly.com/library/view/python-testing-with/9781680509427/

# Documentation Python Code

- Documenting Python Code: A Complete Guide

  - https://realpython.com/documenting-python-code/

- Mastering Python - Second Edition - Documentation – How to Use Sphinx and reStructuredText

  - https://learning.oreilly.com/library/view/mastering-python/9781800207721/Text/Chapter_9.xhtml#:-:text=How%20to%20Use%20Sphinx%20and%20reStructuredText

- Authoring and maintaining documentation
  - https://learning.oreilly.com/library/view/publishing-python-packages/9781617299919/OEBPS/Text/08.htm#heading_id_3

# Debugging

- Mastering Python - Second Edition - Debugging – Solving the Bugs

  - https://learning.oreilly.com/library/view/mastering-python/9781800207721/Text/Chapter_11.xhtml#:-:text=Solving%20the%20Bugs

- Effective Python: 90 Specific Ways to Write Better Python - Testing and Debugging

  - https://learning.oreilly.com/library/view/effective-python-90/9780134854717/ch09.xhtml

- Debugging Python with VS Code
  - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R3smFr6W8jI&ab_channel=MattSpataro

# Packaging

- Mastering Python - Second Edition - Packaging – Creating Your Own Libraries or Applications

  - https://learning.oreilly.com/library/view/mastering-python/9781800207721/Text/Chapter_18.xhtml#:-:text=Creating%20Your%20Own%20Libraries%20or%20Applications

- Packaging and Distributing Python Code

  - https://learning.oreilly.com/library/view/expert-python-programming/9781801071109/Text/Chapter_11.xhtml

- Python Packaging User Guide - Official Pytgon guide

  - https://packaging.python.org/en/latest/

- Packaging Your Code

  - https://docs.python-guide.org/shipping/packaging/

- Infoshare - Python: Packages and modules

  - https://www.infoshareacademy.online/products/python-poczatek/categories/4273154/posts/14345879

- Publishing Python Packages
  - https://learning.oreilly.com/library/view/publishing-python-packages/9781617299919/

## How to Dynamically Generate Requirements.txt file for Python Apps

- https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0ZeoruSobc4&list=PLnFWJCugpwfztr1ND_n0b_j-QXV20DHNj&index=4

# Observing Application Behavior and Performance

- Expert Python Programming - Observing Application Behavior and Performance
  - https://learning.oreilly.com/library/view/expert-python-programming/9781801071109/Text/Chapter_12.xhtml#_idParaDest-244

# Logging in Python

- ArjanCode: Python Logging: How to Write Logs
  - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pxuXaaT1u3k&ab_channel=ArjanCodes

# Makefile - Python

- Creating a Python Makefile

  - https://earthly.dev/blog/python-makefile/#top

- YouTube explanation
  - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Yt-UF7fNLJE&ab_channel=NeuralNine
